
1.
Write a program to print the names of students by creating a Student class. 
If no name is passed while creating an object of the Student class, then the name should be "Unknown", 
otherwise the name should be equal to the String value passed while creating the object of the Student class.

2.Create a class named 'Rectangle' with two data members- length and breadth and a function to
calculate the area which is 'length*breadth'. The class has three constructors which are :
1 - having no parameter - values of both length and breadth are assigned zero.
2 - having two numbers as parameters - the two numbers are assigned as length and breadth respectively.
3 - having one number as parameter - both length and breadth are assigned that number.
Now, create objects of the 'Rectangle' class having none, one and two parameters and print their areas.

3. Suppose you have a Piggie Bank with an initial amount of $50 and you have to add some more amount to it.
 Create a class 'AddAmount' with a data member named 'amount' with an initial value of $50. Now make two constructors of this class as follows:
1 - without any parameter - no amount will be added to the Piggie Bank
2 - having a parameter which is the amount that will be added to the Piggie Bank
Create an object of the 'AddAmount' class and display the final amount in the Piggie Bank.

4. Create a class named 'Programming'. While creating an object of the class, 
if nothing is passed to it, then the message "I love programming languages" should be printed. 
If some String is passed to it, then in place of "programming languages" the name of that String variable should be printed.
For example, while creating the object if we pass "cpp", then "I love cpp" should be printed.

5. Create a class named 'PrintNumber' to print various numbers of different datatypes by creating 
different functions with the same name 'printn' having a parameter for each datatype.

6. Create a class to print an integer and a character using two functions having the 
same name but different sequence of the integer and the character parameters.
For example, if the parameters of the first function are of the form (int n, char c), 
then that of the second function will be of the form (char c, int n).

7. Create a class to print the area of a square and a rectangle. The class has two functions with the 
same name but different number of parameters. The function for printing the area of rectangle has two 
parameters which are its length and breadth respectively while the other function for printing the area 
of square has one parameter which is the side of the square.

8. Create a class 'Student' with three data members which are name, age and address. 
The constructor of the class assigns default values to name as "unknown", age as '0' 
and address as "not available". It has two functions with the same name 'setInfo'. 
First function has two parameters for name and age and assigns the same whereas the 
second function takes has three parameters which are assigned to name, age and address
 respectively. Print the name, age and address of 10 students.
Hint - Use array of objects


9. Create a class 'Degree' having a function 'getDegree' that prints "I got a degree". It has two 
subclasses namely 'Undergraduate' and 'Postgraduate' each having a function with the same name 
that prints "I am an Undergraduate" and "I am a Postgraduate" respectively. Call the function by 
creating an object of each of the three classes.

10. A boy has his money deposited $1000, $1500 and $2000 in banks-Bank A, Bank B and Bank C respectively.
We have to print the money deposited by him in a particular bank.
Create a class 'Bank' with a function 'getBalance' which returns 0. 
Make its three subclasses named 'BankA', 'BankB' and 'BankC' with a function with the same 
name 'getBalance' which returns the amount deposited in that particular bank. 
Call the function 'getBalance' by the object of each of the three banks.

